# 42 - Spacecraft Simulation

42 is a comprehensive general-purpose simulation of spacecraft attitude and
orbit dynamics. Its primary purpose is to support design and validation of
attitude control systems, from concept studies through integration and test. 42
accurately models multi-body spacecraft attitude dynamics (with rigid and/or
flexible bodies), and both two-body and three-body orbital flight regimes,
modelling environments from low Earth orbit to throughout the solar system. 42
simulates multiple spacecraft concurrently, facilitating studies of rendezvous,
proximity operations, and precision formation flying. It also features
visualization of spacecraft attitude.

Features:

  - Multi-body dynamics (tree topology, rotational and/or translational
    joints)
  - Rigid and/or flexible bodies
  - Multiple spacecraft (prox ops, formation flying, or independent)
  - Inter-spacecraft and spacecraft-surface contact forces support landers,
    rovers, and spacecraft servicing scenarios
  - Two-body or three-body orbits, anywhere in the solar system
  - Optional visualization
  - Socket-based interprocess comm (IPC) interface to other apps
  - Fast setup for concept studies
  - Rigorous and full-featured to support full spacecraft life cycle

## Installation

If you're installing on Windows, see the file "Install-msys.txt" in the Docs
folder.

The compiler will attempt to detect what platform you're on (Linux, OSX, or
Msys), but its success rate isn't great. If you have errors on the first
compile or run, try editing your Makefile to manually set your `42PLATFORM`.

## Getting Started

See the overview, "42 Overview.pdf", in the Docs folder. Also recommended:

- Nomenclature.pdf
- POV Menu.pdf
- Key Bindings.txt
- FSW Models.pdf
- Flight Regimes.pdf

The default folder for inputs and outputs is "InOut". Look there for sample
input files. "Inp_Sim.txt" is the top-level input file.

The input/output folder may be changed for a sim run by running 42 with an
argument. For example, enter this at the command prompt:

    42 Demo

## Common Problems

1) 42 expects the input files to be plain vanilla text files. If your text
editor adds formatting, makes straight quotes into smart quotes, etc, 42 may get
confused. The most common symptom is generating the "Bogus input in
DecodeString" error.

2) Also text-related, 42 is very simple-minded about reading the input files.
Adding extra lines, or accidentally deleting a line, or swapping lines, will
throw things out of synch. Again, the most common symptom is the "Bogus input in
DecodeString" error. Use your debugger to trace back where the error was
generated. (The actual mistake may be at that line, or may be somewhere
upstream.)
